Exercises for Chapter 10

1) SQL dump files are often very large; why is this generally not a cause for worry?

2) Set up a weekly backup of all databases on your server.

3) For a production server, what time would you choose for your regular backups?

4) How can you recover modifications that have been made to your data since the last dump?

5) For an application where any loss of data is unacceptable, how would you choose the 
location of your binary logfile?

Optional exercises - you do not have to do any of these, but if you want to, you can do
any or all of them. They are not progressive, so you can do #7 and not #6 if you want.

6) Listen to the 42-minute podcast about backup terminology at http://bit.ly/oursql030  
The podcast can be downloaded for offline play

7) myisamhotcopy is the way the book mentions to do a physical backup - that is, make a 
physical copy of the files, instead of having to make sql exports with mysqldump. Exports 
need to be imported, so restore time is greater. Also, this method only works when you have 
MyISAM only tables, and that is not recommended!

The current standard method of making physical backups is with a third-party tool called 
Xtrabackup. There is no good Windows version of this, so if you only have Windows to test, 
this will not work for you. However, if you have access to a non-Windows machine that has 
MySQL installed and want real-world practice backing up MySQL with the standard tool to make 
physical backups, I encourage you to:

Download/install xtrabackup - see http://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/installation.html
Make a backup using xtrabackup or innobackupex. You can make a local or streaming backup (the 
streaming backup will copy to a remote server, which is used when there is not enough disk space 
to hold the database and its backup. It is also used when you want to use the backup on a 
different server, like when you are making a slave). You can use one of the recipes at 
http://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/how-tos.html
Restore the backup to test how it works. See http://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/how-tos.html
